Let's look again at how we speak about the future in Spanish.
We saw that we have a future tense, but we might not use it very often
because firstly we can just use the present to talk about the future if we have some future context
Some word like manyana, tomorrow, later, mas tarde, or even another part of the sentence which shows us that we're talking about the future, we can just use the present.
When we don't have that, we can use IR-a to go to.
So boya, bamosa, basa.
Which is also present tense.
Boy, bas vamos, it's present.
But we can use it to talk about the future.
So for example, bailar
Bailar, B-A-I-L-A-R, means to dance.
We can relate it to Ballerina
Ballerina actually is just dancer in Spanish.
Bailarin in Spanish is dancer.
So that's where we get ballerina from bailar.
So if you want to say we are going to dance.
Vamos a bailar.
Good.
If you had some future context like later, más tarde, or literally more late, you could just say we dance later.
Bailamos más tarde.
Good.
But you could have used that structure with Vamos if you wanted to.
You have the option.
We can say bailamos más tarde, or we could say we're going to dance later.
Vamos a bailar mas tarde.
Very good.
So we saw that we have a future tense.
We have a future tense, although we might not need to use it very often because we have this situation in Spanish that we can use the present or that
IRA to go to is used even more often than in English this structure of I'm going to do it
instead of I'll do it is used even more in Spanish than in English.
But we do have a future tense.
And the future tense is luckily very related to the different versions
that we found of the verb aber.
Aber was a very irregular verb, this to have, that we used to go into the past.
What was the trick that we used
to find the different versions of this very irregular verb aber.
And we use the vowels, the e and a.
Good.
We use these to take off from.
We go what are the two vowels in Aber E and A?
Okay.
E by itself means I have.
I have and a by itself means.
He, she, it, or you formal have.
Perfect.
And from these we can find the other versions.
So we have if I have and uh we have is
EMOS.
And we have A for he, she, it, U formal.
For U informal, what would we do to A?
Us.
H A S.
Now completely silent this H.
This H that we find in all of these forms.
They have or you guys have
An.
So these are our different versions of Aber.
Now these very sounds, so the sounds, because we're not including the H
the sounds e-emos a as an are the same sounds that we add onto the two form of the verb to get this future tense
So we have a verb like bailar to dance.
If I want to say I will dance using this future tense
I can look at how is I have from aber.
So how is I have from aber.
And I can just stick it on the end.
But it's the sound that is the same.
We are what we are sticking on the end of the verb is an e
Ah, not the H E.
So I will dance.
Is it bailare or bailare?
The ending takes the accent and we said that in Spanish we are pushing the accent into the future, which is an interesting phenomenon.
We spoke about how in Greek, for example, in the past you pull it back into the past
So we find this phenomenon occurring in other languages as well.
Here we are literally pushing the accent into the future and we accent that ending and we say bailare.
Bailare.
I will dance.
We will dance.
Bailaremos.
He, she, it, you fummel will dance.
Bailará.
They or you guys will dance.
Bailaran.
A new informal.
Bailaras.
Good.
So we get the future tense without having to learn anything new.
We just have to remember that we can look back at Aber.
and see what the different versions of a bear were and then use them to build our future.
So in fact we have two future tenses let's say we have will and would.
They are both future tenses.
Now e-emos a as an they work for all verbs.
Er, ir, r, it doesn't matter, they are all using these sounds to form will.
And we have the same situation with wood
Er, ear, are verbs, they are all together.
And the key sound for wood is i
So we add on ia to the end of the verb.
We are accenting it again because it's pushing the accent into the future.
And this I actually gives us I, he, she, it, and you formal.
So here I is jumping in with he, she,
it and you fumo.
So bailaria.
Bailaria means I would dance, he would dance, she would dance, you fumu would dance.
Or it would dance if you can think of some context where that would make sense.
I think you can work out what the rest would be.
So let's try.
How would you say we would dance?
Bailariamos.
Good.
The only thing is the accent stays on the ia.
Bailariamos.
Good.
They or you guys?
Pailarian.
And you informal.
Pailarias.
Good.
So that's it, that's wood.
So the wood and will share some characteristics as they are both different futures.
No?
They share the characteristic that we are adding on to the full verb.
Bailar, bailare, I will dance.
Bailar bailaria I would dance.
And they share the characteristic that they are
Stressing the ending, that the accent is going to the ending.
And they share the characteristic that for both futures
We group all the verbs together.
Ar, er, ir verbs.
So for both futures we have one set of endings for all verb types.
What was to go?
Ear.
Good.
I would go.
Iria.
Yes.
So this actually works for I, he, she, it, a new formal.
So in the wood tense we have I jumping in with he she it you fuman.
How would you say she wouldn't go?
No area.
Good.
What was to eat
Comer.
How would you say I would eat?
Comeria.
Good, I would eat, but I don't have time.
comería pero no tengo hora tempo we have in english
Tiempo.
Comería, pero no tengo tiempo.
Good.
How would you say transformation?
Transformación.
Good.
So to transform.
Transformar.
Good.
How would you say it would transform?
Transformaria.
This you would use it if it was to say it would transform something else.
No?
So you could say it would transform the situation.
How do you say that?
It would transform the situation.
Transformaría la situación.
If you wanted to say it would transform.
and you mean it would get transformed, it would undergo a transformation, then in Spanish you will say it would transform itself
Now in English we we just use the context to understand whether we mean to transform something else or it would transform.
It would get transformed.
But in Spanish most of the time you're gonna want to put that itself
What is that itself?
Say.
Good.
Itself se it would get transformed
Se transformaria.
What is uh contamination?
Contaminacion.
To contaminate.
Contaminar.
Good.
If you want to say it contaminates, how would you say it?
It contaminates.
Present tense.
Contamina.
So contamina would mean it contaminates, it's contaminating.
No?
Maybe we're talking about a factory and we say contamina.
If we want to say it gets contaminated, we don't really have this gets in Spanish
No?
So in Spanish to give this meaning of it gets contaminated, we must just say it contaminates itself.
Now it doesn't mean that it's responsible for its own contamination or that it is literally contaminating itself.
It's just the structure that we use to replace this gets that that we don't have in Spanish.
So if we want to say it gets contaminated and we're talking about a river,
We would just say it contaminates itself even though we all understand that what we don't mean is that the river is actually contaminating itself.
So how would you say that?
It contaminates itself or it gets contaminated.
Se contamina.
Good.
How would you say it would get contaminated?
So it's not it would contaminate, it's it would get contaminated.
Good se contaminaria.
What is imagination?
Imagination.
Imaginacion.
And to imagine
Imaginar.
Well done for converting the ju to hu.
Imagination, imaginacion, imaginar.
I imagine.
Imagino.
You will often hear in Spanish, I imagine myself.
How would that be?
Me imagino.
And here it doesn't really change the meaning.
Sometimes adding this myself or herself, itself, yourself, etc doesn't really change the meaning very much.
Imagino, me imagino, I imagine.
How would you say I would imagine?
Me imaginaria.
Good.
I would imagine that he doesn't want to go.
What is this that that we use?
It's the same as what?
Good.
So I would imagine.
Meimachinaria.
Meimachinaria that he doesn't want to go.
Nocciere ir.
So together.
I would imagine that he doesn't want to go
Me imaginaría que no quiere ir.